After watching "Rat Race" last week, I noticed my cheeks were sore and realized that, when not laughing aloud, I had held a grin for virtually all of the film's 112 minutes.

Saturday night, I attended another sneak preview for the movie and damned if I didn't enjoy it as much the second time as the first.

"Rat Race" is a great goofy delight, a dandy mix of energetic performances, inspired sight gags and flat-out silliness.

Hands down, this is the most fun film of the summer.

The movie begins with zippy retro-style opening credits that look like they were torn straight out of a ' 60s slapstick comedy, featuring animated photos of the cast attached to herky-jerky bodies bounding around the screen.

Then comes the setup.

Donald Sinclair (John Cleese), the extremely rich owner of the Venetian Hotel and Casino in Las Vegas, enjoys concocting unusual bets for his high rolling clients.

To that end, he places a half dozen very special tokens in his slot machines.

Gathering together the lucky token holders, he explains, "Today you have a chance to play a game where the odds of winning are one in six."

The competition is simple: Each contestant gets a key that opens a locker in Silver City, N.M., containing $ 2 million in cash.

There is a transmitter in every key, so that Sinclair and his cronies can keep track of who is ahead.

The race has no rules whichever contestant reaches the locker first gets the money.

Since it would be wrong to spoil any of the jokes, let's use the next few paragraphs to profile the racers.

Decked out in flashy, trashy clothing and sporting big hair, Vera Baker (Whoopi Goldberg) is in town to reunite with the daughter she gave up for adoption as a baby.

She finds that grown-up Merrill (Lanai Chapman) is erudite, conservative and more than a little bit wary of this stranger trying to jump into her life.

Thrown together, it becomes clear that both women share a fierce competitive nature.

Owen Templeton (Cuba Gooding Jr.) is currently the most hated man in America.

An NFL referee, he cost gamblers all over the country enormous amounts of money by blowing a call in a high-profile game.

After escaping from a vengeful cab driver, Owen gets to New Mexico by masquerading as the driver for a busload of Lucy Ricardo impersonators heading to a convention.

Mr. Pollini (Rowan Atkinson) is a cheerful, odd little Italian man on holiday in America.

He also is narcoleptic and falls asleep at the most inopportune times.

Pollini hitches a ride with Zack (Wayne Knight), a hyper-tense ambulance driver carrying a human heart across country for a transplant operation.

Randy Pear (Jon Lovitz) promised his wife Beverly (Kathy Najimy) and two kids a fun-filled vacation in Las Vegas.

Fearful that Beverly will be angry over his involvement in the race, he claims that he must travel to Silver City for a job interview.

Beverly insists the family stay together, so they hop in the mini-van and tear off into the desert.

Brothers Duane (Seth Green) and Blaine (Vince Vieluf) Cody are young, crooked and stupid.

Blaine has a speech impediment due to his poorly self-done tongue piercing, and Duane is the only person who can come close to understanding him.

The boys will stop at nothing to reach their goal.

Finally, Nick Shaffer (Breckin Meyer) is a no-nonsense lawyer-in-training who recruits helicopter pilot Tracy Faucet (Amy Smart) for the journey.

At first glance, they seem blandly wholesome, but all that changes when Tracy buzzes the home of her boyfriend Shawn (Dean Cain) and spies him swimming with another woman.

Director Jerry Zucker ("Airplane," "Ghost") leaps from racer to racer, periodically returning to Las Vegas where Sinclair and Mr. Grisham (Dave Thomas), his personality-impaired right hand man, continue cooking up bizarre bets for the gamblers.

As with any Zucker production, a few jokes fall flat, but the momentum of the comedy zooms past those missteps.

High points for me include a bit involving Kathy Bates as a roadside squirrel salesperson and an intricately set up gag that carries Jon Lovitz and family from a bizarre museum to an outdoor rally, with an utterly tasteless and screamingly funny pay-off.

Had I been part of the filmmaking team, I would have ditched a joke where a key is dropped into a baby's clothes and instead had the key get lost in the cleavage of a dozing society matron.

It would have drawn the same laugh without the squirm-inducing hint of child molestation.

I also would have selected a different band for a concert sequence.

My God, do we really need yet another movie with Smash Mouth performing "All Star?"

But enough carping.

"Rat Race" is a riot, with terrific no-holds-barred performances from the diverse cast.

See it, see it again and when the DVD comes out, buy it, because a movie this hilarious will surely have outtakes to die for.

There exists a litany of differences between a successful action movie and a successful suspense movie.

Action movies are typically devoid of plot other than a simple byline which can string together several explosive sequences, while suspense movies hinge on plot and subtlety and the ability to bring everything full-circle.

For fans of both genres, however, realism is key.

Action fans want to know that the weapons and methods their heroes are using are authentic, and suspense fans want everything to fall into an explainable framework by the movie's end.

On this advice, Director John Frankenheimer (THE ISLAND OF DR.

MOREAU) strives for realism in an interestingly dynamic balance of suspense and action for his latest thriller, RONIN.

The depth of intrigue in RONIN is quite amazing, considering the fare that's fallen into the same category over the last few years.

The script, written by J.D. Zeik in his big-screen debut, approaches levels of complexity that had people spinning away from MISSION: IMPOSSIBLE two years ago.

A certain number of people will be lost by this, but afficianados will appreciate it all the more and return multiple times.

Frankenheimer masters the script with poise, and tells us a dark but stoically realistic tale of a group of post-Cold War mercenaries working to earn their paycheck.

His ability to convey feeling and character while promoting explosiveness and tense atmosphere works well here, and RONIN becomes a better movie because of it.

Robert De Niro headlines this cast of noteworthies in a performance that is the most outstanding of his in quite some time.

He takes command and offers much gravity as the ex-spy Sam, a man who's called to France to help a shady operations controller named Dierdre (Natascha McElhone) recover a package.

The package becomes the central motivator for the entire cast, especially once the requisite double-crossing begins, and its role is skillfully penned by Zeik.

At times, however, Zeik's tale becomes almost too reminiscent of MISSION: IMPOSSIBLE-De Niro might easily become Tom Cruise, the package might become Cruise's computer disk.

Fortunately, the focus here is almost entirely on the package, whereas in MISSION the script was more concerned with the double-cross and why it happened.

The action content is impressive, and it lives up to the hints given in previews.

The only fans who will be disappointed are those who expect full-blown combat scenes and instead are forced to suffer through moments of slowness.

RONIN does take a degree of intelligence to follow all of the nuance from start to finish, but even the uninitiated will be able to keep a grasp on most characters mand subplots.

The suspense tapers off considerably by the end, a bit of a drawback because of its height at the movie's open.

Considering these factors it's good to see that RONIN was a project that turned out well, and it's another good bet this month.

Since quality is usually sparse during the early fall months, it's definitely worth the visit.

Bruce Barth's mellow piano plays in the background as conflict erupts in a little country town of Florida.

Ulee's Gold feels like another Fonda creation-On Golden Pond: it has a soft, calm surface with a tempest brewing underneath, the cinematography creates a place of gold, yellow, and olive colors, the music is stirring and tranquil.

Both deal with the hardships of family life.

Peter Fonda gives his undoubtedly best performance in Victor Nuñez's new film and Patricia Richardson (Home Improvement star) shows she is worthy of big screen attention.

Nuñez is probably independent film's greatest asset, along with John Sayles, and he proves his talent with a slow pace and undulating, heavy tension.

Peter Fonda's performance borrows from his father Henry Fonda's in On Golden Pond-there is a great vulnerability that he gives the character Ulee Jackson and just like his father, Peter Fonda is quiet, emotional, and weary in this exceptional role.

Ulee Jackson, the film's protagonist, is struggling.

Pressure is mounting at the wrong time.

He is a beekeeper and this is his "busy" season.

He has to deal with his two granddaughters' needs and erupting hormones, he is forced to pick up his daughter-in-law in Orlando who is strung out on drugs and take care of her, and he is faced with a challenging task: unsettled business his son, who is now in prison, has left behind.

He finds his daughter-in-law, Helen, with the two men his son robbed a bank with.

She has apparently told these two men that the money that resulted from the robbery is with her husband.

That is why he got caught-the police found him with the money.

Now the two men are demanding they get the cash, or they will come after Ulee's two granddaughters.

Ulee promises he will bring it to them and takes a deranged Helen back to his serene little home where her two children that she abandoned scrutinize her with contempt.

Ulee is a man who lost his pals in war-he was the only man in his platoon to survive.

He refuses help from anybody and does not respond to affectionate gestures.

He is a bitter, closed-off man whose only passion is his beekeeping, his granddaughters, and his dead wife.

Connie, his next door neighbor, finally gets through to him with friendly favors.

She is a nurse and helps Helen get through her turmoil with drugs.

Ulee's Gold is the story of a man who believes he is fine as he is-until the truth is revealed painfully to him: He is cold and unfeeling.

Of course, in the end, Ulee softens up, but his journey is absorbing and we have fallen in love with his tiredness and weariness.

What is admirable about the movie is Peter Fonda's winning turn as Ulee and the story that feels like Nobody's Fool but, in the end, ends up in a class of its own.

If you've ever perused my college comedy diary "Another Year in the Life of a Nerd" (I never run out of cheap plugs), you know I didn't get along with my first-semester roommate too well.

In fact, during the three-week period between Thanksgiving and Christmas Break, I said a total of four sentences to him.

So when I saw in the residence hall cable listings a movie called ROOMMATES, I envisionedminutes of conflict between a couple of bickering young adults trapped in axfoot dorm room.

Then I saw that the star of ROOMMATES is Peter Falk.

Scratch that idea.

But I still say someone should film the story of two college roommates whose relationship is less than ideal.

Of course, in my case it would be a silent picture.

Even without the college element, I still decided to watch ROOMMATES because I had absolutely nothing to do, unless you count studying for final exams (And who does?).

I'm glad I did.

Peter Falk's performance was actually what made the movie.

And this is a guy I never considered a real actor, more like someone who went around in a trenchcoat solving prescripted mysteries.

Falk pleasantly surprised me here, permanently earning my respect, so all you "Columbo" fans who think I live to insult the guy can just falk off.

Falk plays Rocky, a 107-year-old Polish baker who raises his grandson after both the kid's parents die.

The movie begins with the mom's death and the son moving in with his grandparents.

After a couple stops along the son's journey to manhood, ROOMMATES progresses to the present day, with the grandson a surgeon and Rocky in a condemned house he refuses to leave.

The surgeon reluctantly offers the only possible solution--Rocky will have to move into his place, the basement of a building rented by a group of Chinese students ("Communists!").

The movie spans nine more years of Rocky's relationship with his grandson, and the trials posed when the grandson meets and falls in love with--gasp--a woman, and starts spending all his time with her.

So, in his grandson's absence, Rocky turns his pursuits to professional boxing, achieveing the world heavyweight title in a climactic fight with Apollo Creed...

Or am I confusing movie plots again?

ROOMMATES has an almost epic feel to it, covering several generations of a family with one fiesty immigrant who refuses to die.

Death, though, knocks at the door of almost every other major character in the the movie.

ROOMMATES has about as many casualties as the first Halloween.

The number can't be counted on one hand, unless of course you're the victim of some hideous genetic mutation.

And you can probably guess who says farewell to Planet Earth at the end of the movie (no, not Duran Duran).

I won't come out and say it.

Instead, I'll just sit here and hum "Eye of the Tiger" until each and every one of you figures it out.

ROOMMATES plays on all the major emotions.

It knows when to make you laugh and when to make you cry.

Movies that can perfectly mix comedy and drama are always hits with the audience, even though this one bombed at the theaters.

My point?

There are no absolutes.

Or, another possible point, Peter Falk just isn't such a great box office draw.

Either way, this is still a good movie and you should give it a chance like I did, whether you hate your roommate or not.
